frontend/frontend_README.md, before:

# AWS Inventory Manager Frontend

The frontend of this project is a responsive, full-featured inventory management dashboard built with Next.js, styled with Tailwind CSS, and powered by modern libraries for state management, charts, and tables.

## Prerequisites

Before starting, ensure the following tools are installed:

- **Node.js (latest LTS version recommended):** A server-side runtime for JavaScript.
- **npm or npx:** Comes with Node.js, used for managing dependencies and running commands.
- **Visual Studio Code (VS Code):** A powerful code editor with support for JavaScript/TypeScript.

## 1. Setting Up the Development Environment

### Install Node.js

Node.js is a server-side JavaScript runtime. Download and install it via the [official Node.js website](https://nodejs.org/).

### Install npx

npx helps manage npm package binaries conveniently. Run the following command to install it globally:

```bash
npm install -g npx
```

### Code Editor Setup

Open a new directory in Visual Studio Code (VS Code).

Toggle the integrated terminal using:

- **Windows/Linux:** `Ctrl + '` 
- **Mac:** `Cmd + '`

Install these VS Code extensions:

- **ES7+ React/Redux/React-Native Snippets:** Provides handy shortcuts for React/Redux code.
- **Prettier:** Automatically formats your code on save for consistency.

Optionally, install these browser and VS Code tools:

- **Redux Dev Tools:** Debug state management in your browser.
- **Pesticide Chrome Add-On:** Inspect layout structures visually in Chrome.

## 2. Initialize the Next.js Application

Create a new Next.js application by running:

```bash
npx create-next-app@latest inventory-management
```

During setup, select these options:

- Enable TypeScript, ESLint, SRC, and Tailwind CSS.
- Use the `src` directory and the `app` directory for your project structure.

Rename the project folder to `frontend` for better organization:

```bash
mv inventory-management frontend
```

## 3. Install Dependencies

Navigate to the client directory:

```bash
cd client
```

Install the following packages in the order specified:

### 3.1 Material UI and Styling Libraries

```bash
npm install @mui/x-data-grid @mui/material @emotion/react @emotion/styled
```

Provides pre-designed, customizable components like tables, forms, and styling utilities.

### 3.2 Icon Library

```bash
npm install lucide-react
```

Adds lightweight, modern icons for the UI.

### 3.3 Number Formatting

```bash
npm install numeral
```

Formats numbers (e.g., currency, percentages) for better readability.

### 3.4 Charting Library

```bash
npm install recharts
```

Enables the creation of visually appealing, responsive charts for dashboard widgets.

### 3.5 Unique ID Generator

```bash
npm install uuid
```

Generates unique IDs for data objects like products and users.

### 3.6 API Handling

```bash
npm install axios
```

Provides a promise-based HTTP client for handling API requests and responses.

### 3.7 TypeScript Definitions

```bash
npm install -D @types/node @types/uuid @types/numeral
```

Ensures type safety when working with the installed libraries.

## 4. Run and Test the Application

Start the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
```

Visit [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser. You should see a basic "Hello World" page confirming that the setup is complete.

## 5. Folder Structure

```
.next
node_modules
public
src
    app
        (components)
        dashboard
        expenses
        inventory
        products
        settings
        users
        ...
    state
    ...
.gitignore
eslint.config.js
README.md
...
```

### Description of Each Folder

- **app:** Contains all the main application components and pages.
- **state:** Global state management for the project.
- **public:** Stores static assets like images and icons.

Commit message:

docs: enhance README with Visual Studio Code setup instructions and recommended extensions

frontend/frontend_README.md, after:

# AWS Inventory Manager Frontend

The frontend of this project is a responsive, full-featured inventory management dashboard built with Next.js, styled with Tailwind CSS, and powered by modern libraries for state management, charts, and tables.

## Prerequisites

Before starting, ensure the following tools are installed:

- **Node.js (latest LTS version recommended):** A server-side runtime for JavaScript.
- **npm or npx:** Comes with Node.js, used for managing dependencies and running commands.
- **Visual Studio Code (VS Code):** A powerful code editor with support for JavaScript/TypeScript.

## 1. Setting Up the Development Environment

### Install Node.js

Node.js is a server-side JavaScript runtime. Download and install it via the [official Node.js website](https://nodejs.org/).

### Install npx

npx helps manage npm package binaries conveniently. Run the following command to install it globally:

```bash
npm install -g npx
```
### Code Editor Setup

You can use any code editor of your choice. If you choose to use Visual Studio Code (VS Code) as recommended for this project, follow these steps to set it up:

1. **Open a New Directory in VS Code:**
    - Launch VS Code and open the project directory.

2. **Toggle the Integrated Terminal:**
    - **Windows/Linux:** Press `Ctrl + '` 
    - **Mac:** Press `Cmd + '`

3. **Install Recommended Extensions:**
    - **ES7+ React/Redux/React-Native Snippets:** Provides handy shortcuts for React/Redux code.
    - **Prettier:** Automatically formats your code on save for consistency.

4. **Optional Tools:**
    - **Redux Dev Tools:** Debug state management in your browser.
    - **Pesticide Chrome Add-On:** Inspect layout structures visually in Chrome.
Open a new directory in Visual Studio Code (VS Code).

Toggle the integrated terminal using:

- **Windows/Linux:** `Ctrl + '` 
- **Mac:** `Cmd + '`

Install these VS Code extensions:

- **ES7+ React/Redux/React-Native Snippets:** Provides handy shortcuts for React/Redux code.
- **Prettier:** Automatically formats your code on save for consistency.

Optionally, install these browser and VS Code tools:

- **Redux Dev Tools:** Debug state management in your browser.
- **Pesticide Chrome Add-On:** Inspect layout structures visually in Chrome.

## 2. Initialize the Next.js Application

Create a new Next.js application by running:

```bash
npx create-next-app@latest inventory-management
```

During setup, select these options:

- Enable TypeScript, ESLint, SRC, and Tailwind CSS.
- Use the `src` directory and the `app` directory for your project structure.

Rename the project folder to `frontend` for better organization:

```bash
mv inventory-management frontend
```

## 3. Install Dependencies

Navigate to the client directory:

```bash
cd client
```

Install the following packages in the order specified:

### 3.1 Material UI and Styling Libraries

```bash
npm install @mui/x-data-grid @mui/material @emotion/react @emotion/styled
```

Provides pre-designed, customizable components like tables, forms, and styling utilities.

### 3.2 Icon Library

```bash
npm install lucide-react
```

Adds lightweight, modern icons for the UI.

### 3.3 Number Formatting

```bash
npm install numeral
```

Formats numbers (e.g., currency, percentages) for better readability.

### 3.4 Charting Library

```bash
npm install recharts
```

Enables the creation of visually appealing, responsive charts for dashboard widgets.

### 3.5 Unique ID Generator

```bash
npm install uuid
```

Generates unique IDs for data objects like products and users.

### 3.6 API Handling

```bash
npm install axios
```

Provides a promise-based HTTP client for handling API requests and responses.

### 3.7 TypeScript Definitions

```bash
npm install -D @types/node @types/uuid @types/numeral
```

Ensures type safety when working with the installed libraries.

## 4. Run and Test the Application

Start the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
```

Visit [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser. You should see a basic "Hello World" page confirming that the setup is complete.

## 5. Folder Structure

```
.next
node_modules
public
src
    app
        (components)
        dashboard
        expenses
        inventory
        products
        settings
        users
        ...
    state
    ...
.gitignore
eslint.config.js
README.md
...
```

### Description of Each Folder

- **app:** Contains all the main application components and pages.
- **state:** Global state management for the project.
- **public:** Stores static assets like images and icons.
